README.md, before:

# PC Performance Manager

A modern Windows desktop application built with WPF and .NET 8.0 for optimizing system performance by managing RAM usage, power plans, and cleaning up unnecessary files.

## Overview

PC Performance Manager is a comprehensive system optimization tool designed for Windows 10/11. It provides users with powerful features to monitor system resources, optimize memory usage, manage power plans, and clean up temporary files to improve overall system performance.

## Features

### Current Features

- **MVVM Architecture**: Clean separation of concerns using the Model-View-ViewModel pattern
- **Modern UI**: Responsive design with intuitive navigation and dark theme
- **Administrator Privileges**: Built-in administrator privilege handling and validation
- **System Information**: Real-time system information gathering (CPU, RAM, Disk)
- **RAM Management**: 
  - Memory usage monitoring and optimization capabilities
  - Intelligent RAM cleanup that protects critical and active applications
  - Bloatware analysis and automatic cleanup of unnecessary processes
- **Power Management**: Windows power plan management and switching
- **File Cleanup**: Temporary file analysis and cleanup functionality
- **Startup Program Management**: 
  - View and manage programs that start with Windows
  - Enable/disable startup programs from Registry, Startup Folder, and Task Scheduler
  - Startup impact analysis and estimated boot time calculation
  - Safe identification of unnecessary startup applications
- **Windows Services Manager**:
  - View all Windows services with status and startup type
  - Start/stop services and change startup types (Automatic, Manual, Disabled)
  - Critical service protection and safe-to-stop service identification
  - Service statistics and filtering capabilities
- **Disk Analyzer**:
  - Disk usage information and visualization
  - Folder size analysis with recursive scanning
  - Large file finder with customizable minimum size threshold
  - Disk space statistics and detailed file information

### Planned Features

- **Real-time Monitoring**: Live system performance dashboard with charts
- **Advanced Process Management**: Detailed process monitoring and management
- **Scheduled Tasks**: Automated cleanup and optimization schedules
- **Settings Panel**: Application configuration and preferences
- **Logging System**: Comprehensive logging for debugging and auditing

## Requirements

- .NET 8.0 SDK or later
- Windows 10/11 (64-bit)
- Administrator privileges (required for system operations)

## Technologies

- **.NET 8.0**: Latest .NET framework for Windows desktop applications
- **WPF**: Windows Presentation Foundation for rich UI development
- **CommunityToolkit.Mvvm**: Modern MVVM implementation with code generation
- **System.Management**: System information and performance monitoring via WMI
- **System.ServiceProcess**: Windows Services management via ServiceController

## Project Structure

```
PcPerformanceManager/
├── Views/              # XAML view files
│   ├── DashboardView.xaml
│   ├── RamView.xaml
│   ├── StartupView.xaml
│   ├── ServiceView.xaml
│   ├── DiskAnalyzerView.xaml
│   ├── PowerView.xaml
│   └── CleanupView.xaml
├── ViewModels/         # ViewModel classes (business logic)
│   ├── MainViewModel.cs
│   ├── DashboardViewModel.cs
│   ├── RamViewModel.cs
│   ├── StartupViewModel.cs
│   ├── ServiceViewModel.cs
│   ├── DiskAnalyzerViewModel.cs
│   ├── PowerViewModel.cs
│   └── CleanupViewModel.cs
├── Models/             # Data models
│   ├── SystemInfo.cs
│   ├── MemoryInfo.cs
│   ├── PowerPlan.cs
│   ├── CleanupItem.cs
│   ├── ProcessMemoryInfo.cs
│   ├── CleanableProcess.cs
│   ├── NavigationItem.cs
│   ├── StartupProgram.cs
│   ├── WindowsService.cs
│   ├── DiskInfo.cs
│   ├── FolderSize.cs
│   └── LargeFile.cs
├── Services/           # Business services
│   ├── IMemoryService.cs / MemoryService.cs
│   ├── IPowerService.cs / PowerService.cs
│   ├── ICleanupService.cs / CleanupService.cs
│   ├── IStartupService.cs / StartupService.cs
│   ├── IServiceService.cs / ServiceService.cs
│   └── IDiskAnalyzerService.cs / DiskAnalyzerService.cs
├── Converters/         # Value converters for UI
│   ├── ImpactToColorConverter.cs
│   ├── EnabledToBackgroundConverter.cs
│   ├── EnabledToTextConverter.cs
│   ├── EnabledToButtonStyleConverter.cs
│   ├── EnabledToToggleTextConverter.cs
│   ├── ServiceStatusToColorConverter.cs
│   ├── ServiceStatusToVisibilityConverter.cs
│   ├── TabVisibilityConverter.cs
│   └── DiskUsageToColorConverter.cs
├── Helpers/            # Utility classes
│   ├── AdminHelper.cs
│   └── SystemInfoHelper.cs
├── Resources/          # UI resources and styles
│   ├── Styles.xaml
│   └── ModernComboBoxStyle.xaml
├── MainWindow.xaml     # Main application window
├── App.xaml            # Application definition
└── app.manifest        # Application manifest (requires admin privileges)
```

## Installation

### Prerequisites

1. Install [.NET 8.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0)
2. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/emrekurum/pc-performance-manager.git
   cd pc-performance-manager
   ```

### Build

```bash
dotnet restore
dotnet build
```

### Run

```bash
dotnet run
```

**Note**: The application requires administrator privileges. Run your terminal/IDE as administrator, or the application will request elevation at startup.

## Usage

1. Launch the application (as administrator)
2. Navigate through the menu on the left:
   - **Dashboard**: System overview and quick actions
   - **RAM**: Memory usage monitoring, optimization, and bloatware analysis
   - **Disk Analizi**: Disk usage analysis, folder size scanning, and large file finder
   - **Başlangıç**: Startup program management and optimization
   - **Servisler**: Windows services management and configuration
   - **Güç**: Power plan management
   - **Temizlik**: File cleanup and disk space management

## Architecture

### MVVM Pattern

The application follows the Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) architectural pattern:

- **Model**: Data structures and business entities located in the Models folder
- **View**: XAML UI definitions in the Views folder
- **ViewModel**: Business logic and data binding in the ViewModels folder
- **Services**: Reusable business services in the Services folder
- **Helpers**: Utility and helper classes in the Helpers folder

### Key Components

- **MainViewModel**: Handles navigation and main window logic
- **DashboardViewModel**: Manages system overview and quick actions
- **RamViewModel**: Provides RAM monitoring, optimization, and bloatware analysis
- **StartupViewModel**: Manages startup programs from Registry, Startup Folder, and Task Scheduler
- **ServiceViewModel**: Manages Windows services with status and startup type control
- **DiskAnalyzerViewModel**: Handles disk analysis, folder size calculation, and large file detection
- **PowerViewModel**: Manages Windows power plans
- **CleanupViewModel**: Handles file analysis and cleanup operations
- **MemoryService**: Implements RAM optimization using Windows API with intelligent process filtering
- **StartupService**: Manages startup programs from multiple sources with impact analysis
- **ServiceService**: Manages Windows services using ServiceController and WMI
- **DiskAnalyzerService**: Analyzes disk usage, calculates folder sizes, and finds large files
- **PowerService**: Manages power plans using Windows powercfg utility
- **CleanupService**: Handles file system cleanup operations
- **SystemInfoHelper**: Collects system information using WMI queries

## Security

The application requires administrator privileges to:
- Access system performance counters
- Modify power plans
- Clean system directories
- Optimize memory usage

All operations are performed with proper error handling and user consent. The application does not collect or transmit any user data.

## Development Status

### Phase 1: Complete
- Project setup and MVVM architecture
- Helper classes (AdminHelper, SystemInfoHelper)
- Data models (SystemInfo, MemoryInfo, PowerPlan, CleanupItem)
- Service layer (MemoryService, PowerService, CleanupService)

### Phase 2: Complete
- ViewModel implementations for all modules
- Service integration
- Command patterns and async operations

### Phase 3: Complete
- View implementations with modern UI
- Startup Program Management feature
- Windows Services Manager feature
- Disk Analyzer feature
- Enhanced RAM management with bloatware analysis
- Value converters for UI styling
- Modern dark theme with responsive design

### Phase 4: In Progress
- Real-time monitoring with charts
- Advanced features and optimizations
- Bug fixes and stability improvements

See [ROADMAP.md](ROADMAP.md) for detailed development plan.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

Please ensure your code follows the existing code style and includes appropriate documentation.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## Author

**emrekurum**

- GitHub: [@emrekurum](https://github.com/emrekurum)

## Acknowledgments

- Built with [CommunityToolkit.Mvvm](https://github.com/CommunityToolkit/dotnet)
- Powered by .NET 8.0
- Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) framework

## Disclaimer

This application performs system-level operations that can affect system performance and stability. Use at your own risk. Always backup your data before using cleanup features. The authors are not responsible for any data loss or system damage that may occur from using this software.

Commit message:

docs: Add legal notice to README
- Replace MIT license section with custom legal notice
- Add bilingual legal notice (English and Turkish)
- Update copyright information
- Specify that code is for review and educational purposes only
- Add contact information for commercial licensing

README.md, after:

# PC Performance Manager

A modern Windows desktop application built with WPF and .NET 8.0 for optimizing system performance by managing RAM usage, power plans, and cleaning up unnecessary files.

## Overview

PC Performance Manager is a comprehensive system optimization tool designed for Windows 10/11. It provides users with powerful features to monitor system resources, optimize memory usage, manage power plans, and clean up temporary files to improve overall system performance.

## Features

### Current Features

- **MVVM Architecture**: Clean separation of concerns using the Model-View-ViewModel pattern
- **Modern UI**: Responsive design with intuitive navigation and dark theme
- **Administrator Privileges**: Built-in administrator privilege handling and validation
- **System Information**: Real-time system information gathering (CPU, RAM, Disk)
- **RAM Management**: 
  - Memory usage monitoring and optimization capabilities
  - Intelligent RAM cleanup that protects critical and active applications
  - Bloatware analysis and automatic cleanup of unnecessary processes
- **Power Management**: Windows power plan management and switching
- **File Cleanup**: Temporary file analysis and cleanup functionality
- **Startup Program Management**: 
  - View and manage programs that start with Windows
  - Enable/disable startup programs from Registry, Startup Folder, and Task Scheduler
  - Startup impact analysis and estimated boot time calculation
  - Safe identification of unnecessary startup applications
- **Windows Services Manager**:
  - View all Windows services with status and startup type
  - Start/stop services and change startup types (Automatic, Manual, Disabled)
  - Critical service protection and safe-to-stop service identification
  - Service statistics and filtering capabilities
- **Disk Analyzer**:
  - Disk usage information and visualization
  - Folder size analysis with recursive scanning
  - Large file finder with customizable minimum size threshold
  - Disk space statistics and detailed file information

### Planned Features

- **Real-time Monitoring**: Live system performance dashboard with charts
- **Advanced Process Management**: Detailed process monitoring and management
- **Scheduled Tasks**: Automated cleanup and optimization schedules
- **Settings Panel**: Application configuration and preferences
- **Logging System**: Comprehensive logging for debugging and auditing

## Requirements

- .NET 8.0 SDK or later
- Windows 10/11 (64-bit)
- Administrator privileges (required for system operations)

## Technologies

- **.NET 8.0**: Latest .NET framework for Windows desktop applications
- **WPF**: Windows Presentation Foundation for rich UI development
- **CommunityToolkit.Mvvm**: Modern MVVM implementation with code generation
- **System.Management**: System information and performance monitoring via WMI
- **System.ServiceProcess**: Windows Services management via ServiceController

## Project Structure

```
PcPerformanceManager/
├── Views/              # XAML view files
│   ├── DashboardView.xaml
│   ├── RamView.xaml
│   ├── StartupView.xaml
│   ├── ServiceView.xaml
│   ├── DiskAnalyzerView.xaml
│   ├── PowerView.xaml
│   └── CleanupView.xaml
├── ViewModels/         # ViewModel classes (business logic)
│   ├── MainViewModel.cs
│   ├── DashboardViewModel.cs
│   ├── RamViewModel.cs
│   ├── StartupViewModel.cs
│   ├── ServiceViewModel.cs
│   ├── DiskAnalyzerViewModel.cs
│   ├── PowerViewModel.cs
│   └── CleanupViewModel.cs
├── Models/             # Data models
│   ├── SystemInfo.cs
│   ├── MemoryInfo.cs
│   ├── PowerPlan.cs
│   ├── CleanupItem.cs
│   ├── ProcessMemoryInfo.cs
│   ├── CleanableProcess.cs
│   ├── NavigationItem.cs
│   ├── StartupProgram.cs
│   ├── WindowsService.cs
│   ├── DiskInfo.cs
│   ├── FolderSize.cs
│   └── LargeFile.cs
├── Services/           # Business services
│   ├── IMemoryService.cs / MemoryService.cs
│   ├── IPowerService.cs / PowerService.cs
│   ├── ICleanupService.cs / CleanupService.cs
│   ├── IStartupService.cs / StartupService.cs
│   ├── IServiceService.cs / ServiceService.cs
│   └── IDiskAnalyzerService.cs / DiskAnalyzerService.cs
├── Converters/         # Value converters for UI
│   ├── ImpactToColorConverter.cs
│   ├── EnabledToBackgroundConverter.cs
│   ├── EnabledToTextConverter.cs
│   ├── EnabledToButtonStyleConverter.cs
│   ├── EnabledToToggleTextConverter.cs
│   ├── ServiceStatusToColorConverter.cs
│   ├── ServiceStatusToVisibilityConverter.cs
│   ├── TabVisibilityConverter.cs
│   └── DiskUsageToColorConverter.cs
├── Helpers/            # Utility classes
│   ├── AdminHelper.cs
│   └── SystemInfoHelper.cs
├── Resources/          # UI resources and styles
│   ├── Styles.xaml
│   └── ModernComboBoxStyle.xaml
├── MainWindow.xaml     # Main application window
├── App.xaml            # Application definition
└── app.manifest        # Application manifest (requires admin privileges)
```

## Installation

### Prerequisites

1. Install [.NET 8.0 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/8.0)
2. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/emrekurum/pc-performance-manager.git
   cd pc-performance-manager
   ```

### Build

```bash
dotnet restore
dotnet build
```

### Run

```bash
dotnet run
```

**Note**: The application requires administrator privileges. Run your terminal/IDE as administrator, or the application will request elevation at startup.

## Usage

1. Launch the application (as administrator)
2. Navigate through the menu on the left:
   - **Dashboard**: System overview and quick actions
   - **RAM**: Memory usage monitoring, optimization, and bloatware analysis
   - **Disk Analizi**: Disk usage analysis, folder size scanning, and large file finder
   - **Başlangıç**: Startup program management and optimization
   - **Servisler**: Windows services management and configuration
   - **Güç**: Power plan management
   - **Temizlik**: File cleanup and disk space management

## Architecture

### MVVM Pattern

The application follows the Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) architectural pattern:

- **Model**: Data structures and business entities located in the Models folder
- **View**: XAML UI definitions in the Views folder
- **ViewModel**: Business logic and data binding in the ViewModels folder
- **Services**: Reusable business services in the Services folder
- **Helpers**: Utility and helper classes in the Helpers folder

### Key Components

- **MainViewModel**: Handles navigation and main window logic
- **DashboardViewModel**: Manages system overview and quick actions
- **RamViewModel**: Provides RAM monitoring, optimization, and bloatware analysis
- **StartupViewModel**: Manages startup programs from Registry, Startup Folder, and Task Scheduler
- **ServiceViewModel**: Manages Windows services with status and startup type control
- **DiskAnalyzerViewModel**: Handles disk analysis, folder size calculation, and large file detection
- **PowerViewModel**: Manages Windows power plans
- **CleanupViewModel**: Handles file analysis and cleanup operations
- **MemoryService**: Implements RAM optimization using Windows API with intelligent process filtering
- **StartupService**: Manages startup programs from multiple sources with impact analysis
- **ServiceService**: Manages Windows services using ServiceController and WMI
- **DiskAnalyzerService**: Analyzes disk usage, calculates folder sizes, and finds large files
- **PowerService**: Manages power plans using Windows powercfg utility
- **CleanupService**: Handles file system cleanup operations
- **SystemInfoHelper**: Collects system information using WMI queries

## Security

The application requires administrator privileges to:
- Access system performance counters
- Modify power plans
- Clean system directories
- Optimize memory usage

All operations are performed with proper error handling and user consent. The application does not collect or transmit any user data.

## Development Status

### Phase 1: Complete
- Project setup and MVVM architecture
- Helper classes (AdminHelper, SystemInfoHelper)
- Data models (SystemInfo, MemoryInfo, PowerPlan, CleanupItem)
- Service layer (MemoryService, PowerService, CleanupService)

### Phase 2: Complete
- ViewModel implementations for all modules
- Service integration
- Command patterns and async operations

### Phase 3: Complete
- View implementations with modern UI
- Startup Program Management feature
- Windows Services Manager feature
- Disk Analyzer feature
- Enhanced RAM management with bloatware analysis
- Value converters for UI styling
- Modern dark theme with responsive design

### Phase 4: In Progress
- Real-time monitoring with charts
- Advanced features and optimizations
- Bug fixes and stability improvements

See [ROADMAP.md](ROADMAP.md) for detailed development plan.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

1. Fork the repository
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

Please ensure your code follows the existing code style and includes appropriate documentation.

## Legal Notice / Yasal Uyarı

**English:**

The source code of this project is made publicly available solely for review and educational purposes.

⚠️ **Cannot be copied, distributed, or used for commercial purposes.**

If you wish to use or license this project commercially, please contact me: [emrekurum07@hotmail.com]

© 2026 Emre KURUM. All Rights Reserved.

---

**Türkçe:**

Bu projenin kaynak kodları yalnızca inceleme ve eğitim amaçlı olarak halka açılmıştır.

⚠️ **Kopyalanamaz, dağıtılamaz ve ticari amaçla kullanılamaz.**

Bu projeyi ticari olarak kullanmak veya lisanslamak isterseniz lütfen benimle iletişime geçin: [emrekurum07@hotmail.com]

© 2026 Emre KURUM. Tüm Hakları Saklıdır.

## Author

**emrekurum**

- GitHub: [@emrekurum](https://github.com/emrekurum)

## Acknowledgments

- Built with [CommunityToolkit.Mvvm](https://github.com/CommunityToolkit/dotnet)
- Powered by .NET 8.0
- Windows Presentation Foundation (WPF) framework

## Disclaimer

This application performs system-level operations that can affect system performance and stability. Use at your own risk. Always backup your data before using cleanup features. The authors are not responsible for any data loss or system damage that may occur from using this software.
